---
layout: post
title: How To Improve The CS Curriculum And Have More Fun
image:
---

I've thought a lot about modern CS curricula, and I have a few suggestions that
would make them more fun for undergrad students. They are:

1. Teach functional programming first. Most universities start out with either
Python (a pretty good choice for a first language) or Java (a terrible choice).
Wouldn't it be great if first-year students were introduced to Haskell or
Elixir? Imagine the multitudes of newly-minted programmers writing first-year
blogs about how cool monads and applicative functors are.
2. Avoid over-optimizing algorithms (like Quicksort). This one might be a bit
controversial, but I think it makes sense. As a first year student, we should
be presenting a general overview of the field, not esoteric optimization
techniques like Quicksort. What do we replace this part of the curriculum with?
Monoids, applicative functors, monads, etc.
3. Add a Rust-based OS course. You will still need to learn C (since the Linux
kernel is written in C), but wouldn't it be cool to have a Rust-based OS course
paving the way for a memory safe future? This one is my personal favorite.
4. Add required webdev and mobile courses. Most CS grads will be funneled into
one of these two fields, so I think it makes sense for students to have a grasp
on both before entering the field. Plus, it would be cool to have an Elixir-
and Phoenix-based course in the curriculum. :P

That's it! I hope you enjoyed this post, and I hope you have a great day!

P.S. If you'd like to support me or this blog, feel free to [buy me a
coffee](https://buymeacoff.ee/q2YdXu5).
